New page: aria-labelledby (#10874)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/accessibility/aria/attributes/aria-labelledby/index.md

---
title: 'aria-labelledby'
slug: Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-labelledby
tags: 
  - Accessibility
  - ARIA
  - ARIA attribute
  - ARIA property
  - aria-labelledby
  - Reference
---

The `aria-labelledby` attribute identifies the element (or elements) that labels the current element. 

## Description

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `aria-labelledby` property enables authors to reference other elements on the page to define an accessible name. This is useful when using elements that don't have native support for associating elements to provide an accessible name. 

```

The purpose of `aria-labelledby` is the same as that of `aria-label`. It provides the user with a recognizable name for the object. If an element has both attributes set, the `aria-labelledby` gets precedence. In fact, `aria-labelledby` takes precedence over all other methods of providing an accessible name, including `aria-label`, {{HTMLElement('label')}}, and the elements inner text.

The `aria-labelledby` and [`aria-describedby`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-describedby) attributes both reference other elements to calculate text alternatives. The `aria-labelledby` should reference brief text that provides the element with an accessible name. The `aria-describedby` attribute is used to reference longer content that provide a description. If there is no element in the DOM that provides a brief label appropriate for an accessible name for an interactive element, include the `aria-label` attribute to define the accessible name.

> **Note:** While in U.S. English the attribute would be assumed to be spelled "labeledby", the "labelledby" spelling has been established and is the spelling used in accessibility APIs.

> 
> The `aria-labelledby` property enables authors to reference other elements on the page to define an accessible name. This is useful when using elements that don't have native support for associating elements to provide an accessible name. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> For example, the following checkbox is named by the text content of a next sibling element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses `aria-labelledby` to provide an accessible name for a checkbox input by using the text content of a sibling element:
```

```html
<span role="checkbox" aria-checked="false" tabindex="0" aria-labelledby="tac"></span>

> <span id="tac">I agree to the <a href="tac.html">Terms and Conditions</a></span>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<span id="tac">I agree to the Terms and Conditions.</span>
```

```

> Note that while using `aria-labelledby` is similar in this situation to using an HTML {{HTMLElement('label')}} element with the `for` attribute, there are some very important differences. The `aria-labelledby` attribute only defines the accessible name. It doesn't give the `<span>` any of the `<label>` functionality, such as making clicking on the labeling element activate the labeled element. That has to be added back in with JavaScript. However, HTML `<label>` cannot be used to label a `<span>` and they should not contain interactive elements such as links. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that while using `aria-labelledby` is similar in this situation to using an HTML {{HTMLElement('label')}} element with the `for` attribute, there are some very important differences. The `aria-labelledby` attribute only defines the accessible name. It doesn't provide any of `<label>`'s other functionality, such as making clicking on the labeling element activate the input it is associated with. That has to be added back in with JavaScript.
```

Fortunately, the HTML {{HTMLElement('input')}} with `type="checkbox"` works with native `<label>`. When feasible, use the following:

```html
<label for="tac">
  <input id="tac" type="checkbox" name="terms-and-conditions">

>   I agree to the Terms and Conditions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  I agree to the Terms and Conditions.
```

</label>
<p>

>   <a href="tac.html">Read our Terms and Conditions</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <a href="tac.html">Read our Terms and Conditions</a>.
```

</p>
```

### Benefits (and drawbacks)

1. The `aria-labelledby` property has the highest precedence when browsers calculate accessible names. Be aware that it overrides other methods of naming the element, including `aria-label`, other naming attributes, and even the element's contents.
  
   ```html
   <button aria-label="Blue" aria-labelledby="color">Red</button>
   <span id="color">Yellow</span>
   ```

>    In this example, that accessible name is "Yellow". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In this example, that accessible name is "Yellow". 
```

> 1. The `aria-labelledby` property takes as value an id reference list, which means you can combine more than one element into a single accessible name. You can include the {{htmlattrxref('id')}} of the element itself to reference its own content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The `aria-labelledby` property takes as value an id reference list, which means you can combine more than one element into a single accessible name. You can include the {{htmlattrxref('id')}} of the element itself to reference its own content.
```

   ```html
   <h2 id="attr" class="article-title">13 ARIA attributes you need to know</h2>
   <p>There are over 50 ARIA states and properties, but 13 of them stand out &helip; 
     <a href="13.html" id="rm13" aria-labelledby="attr rm13">read more</a>
   </p>
   ```

>    In this example, the accessible name is "read more 13 ARIA attributes you need to know"

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In this example, the accessible name is "read more 13 ARIA attributes you need to know".
```

> 1. The `aria-labelledby` property value order matters. When more than one element is referenced by `aria-labelledby`, the content from each referenced element is combined in the order that they are referenced in the `aria-labelledby` value. Had we written `aria-labelledby="attr rm13">`, the accessible name would have been "13 ARIA attributes you need to know read more".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The `aria-labelledby` property value order matters. When more than one element is referenced by `aria-labelledby`, the content from each referenced element is combined in the order that they are referenced in the `aria-labelledby` value. Had we written `aria-labelledby="attr rm13">`, the accessible name would have been "13 ARIA attributes you need to know read more".
```

> 1. The `aria-labelledby` property ignores repeated `id`s in its value. If an element is referenced more than one time, only the first reference is processed. `aria-labelledby="attr attr rm13 rm13">` is treated as `aria-labelledby="attr rm13">`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The `aria-labelledby` property ignores repeated `id`s in its value. If an element is referenced more than one time, only the first reference is processed. `aria-labelledby="attr attr rm13 rm13">` is treated as `aria-labelledby="attr rm13">`
```

> 3. The `aria-labelledby` property value can include content from elements that aren't even visible. While you should provide assistive technology users with the same content and all other users, you can include content from elements with the HTML {{htmlattrxref('hidden')}} attribute, CSS [`display: none`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display), and CSS [`visibility: hidden`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/visibility) in the calculated name string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The `aria-labelledby` property value can include content from elements that aren't even visible. While you should provide assistive technology users with the same content and all other users, you can include content from elements with the HTML {{htmlattrxref('hidden')}} attribute, CSS [`display: none`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display), and CSS [`visibility: hidden`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/visibility) in the calculated name string.
```

> 4. The `aria-labelledby` property incorporates the value of input elements. If the value references an `<input>`, the current value of the form control is included in the calculated name string, changing if the value is updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. The `aria-labelledby` property incorporates the value of input elements. If the value references an `<input>`, the current value of the form control is included in the calculated name string, changing if the value is updated.
```

> 5. The `aria-labelledby` property cannot be chained. If an element with `aria-labelledby` references another element that also has `aria-labelledby`, the `aria-labelledby` attribute on the referenced element is ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. The `aria-labelledby` property cannot be chained. If an element with `aria-labelledby` references another element that also has `aria-labelledby`, the `aria-labelledby` attribute on the referenced element is ignored.
```
